CODEWEEKEND / WEEKEND W
Brand kit v1.1 / 9 October 2026

SELECTED DIRECTION
Weekend W: a compact, upright symbol made from two joined channels.
The shared centre suggests people learning and building together.

SHORTLIST
1. CW Monogram: friendly, but its letters can read as "aw".
2. Weekend W: selected for clarity, simplicity and versatility.
3. Shared Blocks: modular, but too close to a chart or generic growth symbol.
The three concept sheets are in exploration/. They were generated with the
built-in image generation tool. The selected mark was then rebuilt in native
SVG geometry; those SVGs are the final production masters.

START WITH
codeweekend-brand-guide.pdf - nine-page guide, including the shortlist
brand-guide.html - local browser version; keep it beside the other folders
logos/logo-primary.svg - default horizontal logo
logos/logo-reverse.svg - use on dark Ink backgrounds
logos/logo-mono-ink.svg - single-colour printing on light material
logos/logo-mono-white.svg - single-colour printing on dark material
logos/avatar.png - 800 x 800 social profile image
logos/favicon.svg - website icon, designed for 16-32 px display

ALSO INCLUDED
Horizontal and stacked logos in SVG and transparent PNG.
Symbol-only versions in SVG and transparent PNG.
Social square: 1080 x 1080; portrait: 1080 x 1350; banner: 1200 x 630.
SVG versions of social graphics have outlined type for portable rendering.
To change their wording, edit source/build.py and rebuild them.
applications/pattern.svg and pattern-sage.svg - separate accent families.
imagery/ - face-free abstract hero (landscape and square) and three story tiles.
web-preview.html - live colour, control and RTL specimens.
web-components.css - scoped sample components; import tokens.css first.
research/brand-screening.txt - preliminary search scope, findings and sources.
research/notch-comparison.svg/png - rejected refinement, not a production logo.
tokens.css - implementation-ready colour and type tokens.
fonts/ - Manrope, Atkinson Hyperlegible Mono and Vazirmatn, with OFL licences.

CORE BRAND
Positioning: An inclusive community of developers.
Signature line: Build something. Together.
Personality: welcoming, practical, curious, confident.
Voice: short sentences, concrete actions, useful next steps.
Name in prose: CodeWeekend. Lowercase codeweekend is reserved for the logo.

PALETTE (sRGB)
Ink         #182B29 - wordmark, body text, dark backgrounds
Vermilion   #F0643B - symbol, highlights, graphic blocks
Cream       #F7F4EC - default background, text on Ink
Sage        #BCC9BC - supporting panels and quiet pattern
Muted       #52635E - secondary text on Cream

Ink/Cream contrast: 13.49:1. Ink/Vermilion: 4.65:1. Ink/Sage: 8.63:1.
Vermilion/Cream is 2.90:1: do not use this pair for text or functional icons.
Use Ink lettering on Vermilion; use Cream lettering on Ink.

FUNCTIONAL COLOUR
Rust #CC3A10: primary button background with white text (5.02:1).
Hover #A72D0B; active #822308. Vermilion buttons use Ink text.
Links #A72D0B, underlined; hover #822308. Dark-surface links #FA805E.
Second surface #EDE9DF. Functional borders #687B71; dividers #D9DED7.
Rust #CC3A10 fails on the second surface: use the darker link token.
Focus: 3 px Rust Dark outline / 3 px offset on light; Cream on dark.
Error, success, information and warning pairs are in tokens.css.
Always pair status colour with explanatory text or an icon.
Do not create equal Ink, Vermilion and Sage stripes or tricolours.

IMAGERY
Use the supplied upright W field and story tiles as face-free defaults.
Choose Ink/Cream/Vermilion OR Ink/Cream/Sage per composition.
Keep headlines in HTML, with a quiet clear area around text.
Abstract decorative images use empty alt text. Meaningful project imagery
needs alt text describing the work. Remove identifying data from screenshots.
No faces, rescue narratives, cultural shorthand or fabricated learner work.

TYPE
Manrope 800: headlines. Manrope 400-500: body.
Atkinson Hyperlegible Mono 500: short labels and code.
Web body: 18 px, line-height 1.6; labels: 12 px minimum.
Keep Vazirmatn for Dari and Pashto. Use 18 px / 1.8 for body text, without
artificial letter spacing. Set lang="fa-AF" or "ps-AF" and dir="rtl".
The logo and code remain LTR in isolated elements. Have native speakers
review translations; the guide specimens are not campaign translations.

LOGO RULES
Leave one stem-width of clear space around visible artwork (20% of the W width).
Horizontal logo minimum: 160 px wide digitally, 35 mm in print.
Symbol minimum: 20 px wide. For smaller digital sizes, use the favicon.
Keep the W upright. Never stretch it, use outlines, or apply shadows/gradients.
Use the supplied reverse version instead of improvising colours.
No changes to the website are made by this package.

REBUILD
python3 source/build.py
Requires fontTools. Then run source/render.cjs with Node.js and playwright-core
to produce PNG exports and the PDF using a local Chrome installation.
Poppler pdftoppm creates guide-page previews from the finished PDF.
The renderer checks for missing images, overflow, footer clearance, SVG
bounds, focus appearance and computed RTL font/direction. SVG-to-PNG
exports use direct canvas rasterization to preserve alpha and dimensions.
source/contrast.json records the calculated colour contrast values.
source/render-checks.json records the final render checks and PNG dimensions.

PROVENANCE
Brand positioning and audience were informed by this project's README.
New logo exploration and selection: 8 October 2026.
Built-in image generation was used for the three exploration sheets.
Final SVGs, social artwork, layout, copy and production assets were constructed
as native vectors from the selected W concept. The wordmark uses outlined
Manrope 800 with adjusted tracking. Font licences are included.
The rejected kite draft is not part of this kit.

REVIEW DECISION / V1.1
All 14 approved SVG logo masters were compared with the previous kit and
are unchanged. The tiny cursor notch was tested and rejected for poor
small-size definition. Keep the full wordmark at first encounter.
The Canadian name screen returned no matches for the two queried names,
but unrelated Code Weekend events were found on the public web. This is
not trademark clearance. Obtain a professional name/design review in the
intended markets before a major print run; see research/brand-screening.txt.
